Added Accessibility Testing basics how to article (#1204)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/accessibility/lighthouse.md

---
description: Testing accessibility using Lighthouse from within DevTools.
title: Testing accessibility using Lighthouse
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.date: 05/13/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
keywords: microsoft edge, web development, f12 tools, devtools
---
<!-- this article was created on 05/11/2021 by moving a section out from the "Accessibility reference" article (reference.md) -->
<!-- Copyright Kayce Basques 

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.  -->  

# Testing accessibility using Lighthouse

> You can use Lighthouse from within DevTools to audit the accessibility of a page and generate a report, as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Lighthouse from within DevTools to audit the accessibility of a page and generate a report. You can use the Lighthouse tool to determine:

*   Whether a page is properly marked up for screen readers.  
*   Whether the text elements on a page have sufficient contrast ratios using the Color Picker. For more information, navigate to [Testing text-color contrast using the Color Picker](color-picker.md).   

```

> [!NOTE]
> The **Lighthouse** tool provides links to content hosted on third-party websites.  Microsoft is not responsible for and has no control over the content of these sites and any data that may be collected.  

> Use the Lighthouse tool to determine:
> 
> *   Whether a page is properly marked up for screen readers.  
> *   Whether the text elements on a page have sufficient contrast ratios, as shown in the [Color Picker](color-picker.md).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> To audit a page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To audit a page using the Lighthouse tool, perform the following steps.
```

1.  Navigate to the URL that you want to audit.
1.  In DevTools, select the **Lighthouse** tool (previously labelled as the **Audits** tool).  DevTools shows you various configuration options.
    

>     :::image type="complex" source="../media/accessibility-audits-pane.msft.png" alt-text="Configure audits" lightbox="../media/accessibility-audits-pane.msft.png":::
>        Configure audits  
>     :::image-end:::  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :::image type="complex" source="../media/accessibility-audits-pane.msft.png" alt-text="Configuration options of the Lighthouse tool" lightbox="../media/accessibility-audits-pane.msft.png":::
       Configuration options of the Lighthouse tool  
    :::image-end:::  
```

Reviewer: Can we update the image since this one shows Audit but the product shows Lighthouse?

    
    > [!NOTE]

>     > The screenshots in this section were taken with Microsoft Edge version 79.  You may check what version you are running at `edge://version`.  The general workflow remains the same.  

Reviewer: after the image update, this note may not be needed again.

    
1.  For **Device**, choose **Mobile** if you want to simulate a mobile device.  This option changes your user agent string and resizes the viewport.  If the mobile version of the page displays differently than the desktop version, this option may have a significant effect on the results of your audit.  

> 1.  In the **Audits** section, make sure that **Accessibility** is enabled.  Disable the other categories if you want to exclude them from your report.  Leave them enabled if you want to discover other ways to improve the quality of your page.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the **Audits** section, ensure **Accessibility** is selected.  The other categories are optional, and can help you find other ways to improve the quality of your page.  
```

> 1.  The **Throttling** section lets you throttle the network and CPU, which is useful when analyzing load performance.  This option should be irrelevant to your accessibility score, so you may use whatever you prefer.  
> 1.  The **Clear Storage** checkbox lets you clear all storage before loading the page, or preserve storage between page loads.  This option is also probably irrelevant to your accessibility score, so you may use whatever you prefer.  
> 1.  Choose **Generate report** (previously **Run audit**). After 10 to 30 seconds, DevTools provides a report.  Your report gives you various tips on how to improve the accessibility of the page.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  (Optional) The **Throttling** section lets you throttle the network and CPU, which is useful when analyzing load performance, and does not impact the accessibility score.  
1.  (Optional) The **Clear Storage** checkbox lets you clear all storage before loading the page, or preserve storage between page loads.  This option does not impact the accessibility score.  
1.  Choose **Generate report** (previously called **Run audit**). After 10 to 30 seconds, DevTools displays a report.  Your report gives you various tips on how to improve the accessibility of the page.  
```

    
    :::image type="complex" source="../media/accessibility-audits-run-audits-result.msft.png" alt-text="A report" lightbox="../media/accessibility-audits-run-audits-result.msft.png":::
       A report  
    :::image-end:::  
    

> 1.  Choose an audit to learn more about it.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Choose an item in the report to learn more about it.  
```

>     :::image type="complex" source="../media/accessibility-audits-run-audits-result-issues-expanded.msft.png" alt-text="More information about an audit" lightbox="../media/accessibility-audits-run-audits-result-issues-expanded.msft.png":::
>        More information about an audit  
>     :::image-end:::  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :::image type="complex" source="../media/accessibility-audits-run-audits-result-issues-expanded.msft.png" alt-text="More information about an item" lightbox="../media/accessibility-audits-run-audits-result-issues-expanded.msft.png":::
       More information about an item
    :::image-end:::  
```

> 1.  Choose **Learn More** to view the documentation of that audit.  
>     
>     :::image type="complex" source="../media/accessibility-web-dev-accessibility-audits-learn-more.msft.png" alt-text="View the documentation of an audit" lightbox="../media/accessibility-web-dev-accessibility-audits-learn-more.msft.png":::
>        View the documentation of an audit  
>     :::image-end:::  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Choose **Learn More** to view the documentation of that item.  
    
    :::image type="complex" source="../media/accessibility-web-dev-accessibility-audits-learn-more.msft.png" alt-text="View the documentation of an item" lightbox="../media/accessibility-web-dev-accessibility-audits-learn-more.msft.png":::
       View the documentation of an item  
    :::image-end:::  
```
